[Music]
we hear a lot about data science AI
machine learning right these are all
things that are in the mill year right
now I think if they fundamentally point
at the same idea the same concept around
you might call it machine intelligence
where it's about how do you use
computers and the vast amount of data
that's out there that kind of big data
and then leverage that to make more
intelligent decisions as an organization
as a government as a non-profit this
really comes from a few major secular
trends that are happening one is the
plummeting cost of computation and the
plumbing cost of storage so now we have
the capacity to store that data
relatively cheaply and three other
process that data relatively cheaply and
then the other major trend is that
everyone's walking around with
smartphones everyone's interacting with
the internet for a large portion of the
day and so we're able to capture huge
parts of the human experience and
digitize that information and store it
in the cloud so when we have all these
connected devices that are measuring us
we can actually understand a lot about
human behavior and that's actually
really really fascinating and with from
that we're able to create products
services that are so much more rich and
so much more personalized then we've
been able to do before
and so if you think about maybe even the
simplest example might be something like
a Netflix right with a recommendation
engine that's able to serve up content
in a very targeted way so that they give
you they show you out of there in a
library of probably millions of possible
videos for you to watch the five to ten
that you're most likely to want to watch
and they can do this from what's called
a lookalike analysis where they will
look at what other people who have
watched a similar set of videos as you
have how have they've rated those videos
and how much they've liked those videos
and then see what other videos those
people have liked that you haven't yet
watched
and that's probably a good candidate for
a video that you should watch right so
that kind of look-alike analysis or if
you're a data scientist you'd probably
call that a recommendation engine that's
actually a very powerful technique and
it's sort of very fundamental to a
business that has tens of millions of
videos and they know you're only gonna
watch one tonight
all right how do you pick out that one
good video so that's not just a huge
search problem it for a consumer but
it's actually a pleasurable experience
for them and that's you know has
implications beyond Netflix right if you
think about a company like Amazon that's
incredibly important for them they have
billions of items on their store you
need to be able to figure out what to
buy and so they can tell you the right
item they can just maybe get you to buy
something that you otherwise would have
purchased and that's you know has a
direct impact on their bottom line and
it also makes consumers happier right it
helps you reduce the amount of time you
spend searching for products and
services so I think these kind of data
enabled services where companies can
give you what you want when you want it
that's becoming increasingly powerful
within the kind of consumer market and
it's becoming increasingly the standard
so I think what we've seen is that for a
lot of legacy enterprises that are not
digital first that haven't been able to
embrace data and data science there's a
almost kind of an adversarial
relationship between the consumer and
that product or service where you're
saying as a consumer hey I have this
great experience when I'm interacting
with Facebook or Google or Netflix they
seem to give me what I want
why can't you give me what I want and
when you experience that right there's a
lot of fear on the part of those
companies the legacy companies that
their ability to sort of maintain that
market is gonna rapidly evaporate and
it's gonna be deteriorate at a really
quick rate if any of these sort of
digital companies enter that market
because they understand how to leverage
data they understand how to use that the
information they have our consumers to
give consumers a fundamentally better
product there's obviously a lot in the
news about Cambridge analytic a Facebook
and how we society deal with data and
how we are how we should deal with data
should there be regulation should we
have more privacy protections and I
think these are really interesting and
valid questions that we saw we as a
society should ask right and it seems
that we're entering a period where
there's certainly within Europe with the
passage of GDP are there's increasing
reluctance to just say Facebook Google
you can have free reign over all of our
data in an unchecked way and I think
we'll see what happens and as we move
forward with regulation and this kind of
consumer protections
[Music]